## Facebook replica database using SQL + Querying using Tableau and MongoDB

Group project with Rajashree rajendran and Chaitanya Tolem

### Overview
Facebook Inc. is an American social media and social networking company which was established in the year of 2004 by Mark Zuckerberg, Eduardo Saverin, Andrew McCollum, Dustin Moskovitz and Chris Hughes. It was a school-based social network in Harvard University until 2006. In 2006, Facebook opened its doors to anyone older 13 years or older in the world. Facebook has a very user-friendly interface, and anyone with basic computer knowledge can use Facebook. The primary purpose of Facebook was to find friends who have not been in touch and to help them re-connect. Among the many other social networking sites, Facebook emerged to be the most successful one due to its unique features such as the ‘Like’ option, News Feed, Games and Business-friendly approach. The usage of Facebook has grown over time, the number of users crossing 2.27 billion monthly active users, as of September 2018, according to statistics. In the last decade, the use of all social networking sites has grown exponentially, with Facebook leading the list. This exponential growth means there is a huge amount of data available from all these users. Facebook was built around Big Data from its beginning, data was the driving force that kept it alive. But recently, Facebook has run into a lot of trouble for its usage of user data. Some attackers accessed personal data of at least 50 million Facebook users by exploiting a vulnerability in the system. This led to a huge uproar about the data usage of social networks, and increased privacy concerns among users, which led Facebook to shut down almost all of its open source data. In this project, we have attempted to create a database that is similar to that of Facebook, write queries to see how the database works and find some specific details using SQL queries such the most expensive game, a specific name search, etc.

### Description of the Data Model
In order to proceed with this project, it is essential to understand how Facebook database works. Information on Facebook is mostly represented in the form of a social graph. The content is usually highly customizable based on the user’s privacy settings. Hence, the data has to be stored in its original form and then filtered when needed. Facebook uses a combination of MySQL and Memcache for its database. Every user has his/her own dedicated database. Facebook uses MySQL because of its speed and reliability. Facebook stores friend relationships in a system called ‘Tao’ which uses MySQL. All tables have a hashed name and they are spread over a number of servers, similar to graph databases. Tao only stores the relations between entities. According to Facebook Inc., they collect information based on how a user uses their products. Information is collected from and about all computers and other devices the user uses to access Facebook, and this information is combined by them. The collected information is used to personalize features and content and to make suggestions for the user. The collected data is used to help advertisers to measure the effectiveness of their ads and services and to understand how the users interact with their services. They store the data until it is no longer necessary to provide the services or until the user deletes the account, whichever is first. While trying to understand the database structure of Facebook, we went through a number of resources and stumbled upon a resource where the class diagram was created by reverse engineering various Facebook business entities. Since only a very small portion of database details of Facebook is available as open source, we decided to create our database by reverse-engineering the the ER diagram we initially designed. Thereafter, we generated data ourselves before proceeding to integrate the data in sql. We went way beyond the presribed 5 problems/queries when we decided to tackle around 20 problems/queries. Some were routine tasks whereas others were aimed at analysing by querying the database.
